profile/README.md, before:


# 👋 Hi, I'm Joel Maria

💻 **Full Stack & Mobile Engineer** | JavaScript • React • React Native • Node.js • Docker • Kubernetes  
🚀 16+ years of experience building scalable FinTech, transportation, and enterprise apps  
🌍 Former AI Mobile App Developer at **Bank of America, Fidelity, TD Ameritrade**, and Team Lead at **U.S. Bank**  
📈 Specialized in **Web, Mobile & Backend Development** with a focus on **AI-driven features, cloud, and geolocation systems**  



## 🏆 Career Highlights
- **Jms Technologies Inc – Senior Software Engineer, React Native**  
  Built App for Authors **for 500M+ users** and optimized Design System & GraphQL APIs for speed and accessibility.

- **U.S. Bank – React Native & Full Stack Team Lead**  
  Led **30+ engineers** redesigning iOS, Android & Web apps → **20M+ downloads**, 5⭐ ratings, #1 in **Keynova Group Q1 2024**.  

- **Bank of America – React Native & Backend Developer**  
  Built **biometric login, mobile deposits, stock trading modules** → **50M+ downloads**, **46M active users**, 4.8⭐ rating.  

- **Fidelity Investments – Senior Software Engineer**  
  Transformed legacy Swift into cross-platform, fraud detection dashboards, and **real-time trading features**.  

- **Grax.com – Full Stack Developer**  
  Scaled SaaS to **100M+ API calls daily**, managing **petabytes of data** with Node.js + React.js → **$20M annual revenue**.  



## 💡 Why Work With Me
✔ Tailored Approach → solutions customized to your project & budget  
✔ Agile Workflow → milestones, transparency, regular updates  
✔ High-Quality Development → testing, optimization, security  
✔ Proven Track Record → enterprise apps, SaaS, AI, scalable platforms  



## 🚀 Featured Projects
- **U.S. Bank Voice Assistant** → Spanish NLP banking assistant → $7.06B revenue, 20M+ downloads  
- **Ride-Hailing Platform** → Real-time fleet tracking, Kafka alerts, PostGIS geofencing  
- **Fidelity Investments** → Mobile trading app with advanced charting & fraud detection  
- **Bank of America** → Mobile check deposit, account management, secure payments for 57M+ users  
- **TD Ameritrade** → Cross-platform fintech trading app (iOS, Android, Web)  
- **Multi-Vendor Marketplace** → Firebase serverless functions for payments, analytics & real-time ops  



## 🛠️ Tech Stack
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,nodejs,ts,js,kafka,php,laravel,firebase,python,django,graphql,postgres,mongodb,docker,kubernetes,redis,git,aws,gcp,redux,webpack,wordpress,androidstudio,babel,bootstrap,css,html,figma,mysql,supabase" />
</p>



## 🏅 Achievements
- Built **90+ reusable React Native components** with Storybook  
- Maintained **80%+ test coverage** with Jest, Detox, E2E  
- Architected **serverless & microservices** backends with Firebase, Node.js, and Kubernetes  
- Integrated **Stripe payments, real-time geolocation, AI/ML**, and **secure APIs**  


## 📦 My Open Source Library

**[React Native Components](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-components)**  
A lightweight, modular UI kit & utility library for React Native (Android, iOS & Web). Built to accelerate development with reusable components, theming, localization, map & geolocation support, and real-world performance optimizations.

### ⚙️ Key Features
- Modular exports — import only what you need to keep bundle size minimal
- Theming & localization utilities included 
- Map & geolocation components: markers, tooltips, heatmaps, etc.
- Comprehensive helper utilities (deep linking, permissions, image helpers, etc.) 


## 🌍 Open Source Contributions

I’ve actively contributed to well-known open source projects that power millions of apps worldwide:

- 🌀 **[React Native Paper](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-paper)** → Bug fixes, documentation improvements & feature enhancements  
- 🔥 **[Firebase JS SDK](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk)** → Utilities, testing coverage, and Node.js integrations  
- ⚡ **[React Native Mapbox Navigation](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-mapbox-navigation)** → Performance improvements on core utilities  



## 📬 Connect with Me  

| Platform   | Contact |
|------------|---------|
| 🔗 LinkedIn | [joel-maria](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joel-maria-960a7820/) |
| ✉️ Email    | [joelmsanto@gmail.com](mailto:joelmsanto@gmail.com) |
| 📱 WhatsApp | [+1 978 771 2261](https://wa.me/19787712261) |

**🎯 Free 30-Minute Consultation Available**

Commit message:

Refine career highlight for Jms Technologies Inc
Enhanced the description of the Authors app to clarify its scale and improvements.

profile/README.md, after:


# 👋 Hi, I'm Joel Maria

💻 **Full Stack & Mobile Engineer** | JavaScript • React • React Native • Node.js • Docker • Kubernetes  
🚀 16+ years of experience building scalable FinTech, transportation, and enterprise apps  
🌍 Former AI Mobile App Developer at **Bank of America, Fidelity, TD Ameritrade**, and Team Lead at **U.S. Bank**  
📈 Specialized in **Web, Mobile & Backend Development** with a focus on **AI-driven features, cloud, and geolocation systems**  



## 🏆 Career Highlights
- **Jms Technologies Inc – Senior Software Engineer, React Native**  
 Built a large-scale Authors app serving **500M+** users and optimized the Design System and GraphQL APIs to enhance performance, accessibility, and cross-platform consistency.

- **U.S. Bank – React Native & Full Stack Team Lead**  
  Led **30+ engineers** redesigning iOS, Android & Web apps → **20M+ downloads**, 5⭐ ratings, #1 in **Keynova Group Q1 2024**.  

- **Bank of America – React Native & Backend Developer**  
  Built **biometric login, mobile deposits, stock trading modules** → **50M+ downloads**, **46M active users**, 4.8⭐ rating.  

- **Fidelity Investments – Senior Software Engineer**  
  Transformed legacy Swift into cross-platform, fraud detection dashboards, and **real-time trading features**.  

- **Grax.com – Full Stack Developer**  
  Scaled SaaS to **100M+ API calls daily**, managing **petabytes of data** with Node.js + React.js → **$20M annual revenue**.  



## 💡 Why Work With Me
✔ Tailored Approach → solutions customized to your project & budget  
✔ Agile Workflow → milestones, transparency, regular updates  
✔ High-Quality Development → testing, optimization, security  
✔ Proven Track Record → enterprise apps, SaaS, AI, scalable platforms  



## 🚀 Featured Projects
- **U.S. Bank Voice Assistant** → Spanish NLP banking assistant → $7.06B revenue, 20M+ downloads  
- **Ride-Hailing Platform** → Real-time fleet tracking, Kafka alerts, PostGIS geofencing  
- **Fidelity Investments** → Mobile trading app with advanced charting & fraud detection  
- **Bank of America** → Mobile check deposit, account management, secure payments for 57M+ users  
- **TD Ameritrade** → Cross-platform fintech trading app (iOS, Android, Web)  
- **Multi-Vendor Marketplace** → Firebase serverless functions for payments, analytics & real-time ops  



## 🛠️ Tech Stack
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,nodejs,ts,js,kafka,php,laravel,firebase,python,django,graphql,postgres,mongodb,docker,kubernetes,redis,git,aws,gcp,redux,webpack,wordpress,androidstudio,babel,bootstrap,css,html,figma,mysql,supabase" />
</p>



## 🏅 Achievements
- Built **90+ reusable React Native components** with Storybook  
- Maintained **80%+ test coverage** with Jest, Detox, E2E  
- Architected **serverless & microservices** backends with Firebase, Node.js, and Kubernetes  
- Integrated **Stripe payments, real-time geolocation, AI/ML**, and **secure APIs**  


## 📦 My Open Source Library

**[React Native Components](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-components)**  
A lightweight, modular UI kit & utility library for React Native (Android, iOS & Web). Built to accelerate development with reusable components, theming, localization, map & geolocation support, and real-world performance optimizations.

### ⚙️ Key Features
- Modular exports — import only what you need to keep bundle size minimal
- Theming & localization utilities included 
- Map & geolocation components: markers, tooltips, heatmaps, etc.
- Comprehensive helper utilities (deep linking, permissions, image helpers, etc.) 


## 🌍 Open Source Contributions

I’ve actively contributed to well-known open source projects that power millions of apps worldwide:

- 🌀 **[React Native Paper](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-paper)** → Bug fixes, documentation improvements & feature enhancements  
- 🔥 **[Firebase JS SDK](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-js-sdk)** → Utilities, testing coverage, and Node.js integrations  
- ⚡ **[React Native Mapbox Navigation](https://github.com/jmstechnologiesinc/react-native-mapbox-navigation)** → Performance improvements on core utilities  



## 📬 Connect with Me  

| Platform   | Contact |
|------------|---------|
| 🔗 LinkedIn | [joel-maria](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joel-maria-960a7820/) |
| ✉️ Email    | [joelmsanto@gmail.com](mailto:joelmsanto@gmail.com) |
| 📱 WhatsApp | [+1 978 771 2261](https://wa.me/19787712261) |

**🎯 Free 30-Minute Consultation Available**
